╔╗░╔╦══╗╔═══╦═══╦═══╦╗░╔╦══╦═══╗░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
║║░║║╔╗║║╔══╣╔═╗║╔═╗║║░║╠╣╠╣╔═╗║░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
║║░║║╚╝╚╣╚══╣╚═╝║║░╚╣╚═╝║║║║╚═╝║░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
║║░║║╔═╗║╔══╣╔╗╔╣║░╔╣╔═╗║║║║╔══╝░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
║╚═╝║╚═╝║╚══╣║║╚╣╚═╝║║░║╠╣╠╣║░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
╚═══╩═══╩═══╩╝╚═╩═══╩╝░╚╩══╩╝░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░

# UberChip & UberNee

The Supreme PSX Modchip (C) 2021

LGT8F328P PU22/ PU23/ NTSC-PM41 [PSOne] / UberNee version (c) 2022

VajskiDs Consoles

**'The Black Screen of Injection Acception'**
**For 3.3v compatible Arduino / clones & PIC 12F675**

## Credit where it's Due

The delays used in the PIC ASM version were generated by 'PICLOOPS'
The WFCK Frequency was calculated with RTM Timer Calculator

## References for informations:

- http://www.psxdev.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=1265&start=20
- https://www.obscuregamers.com/threads/playstation-scph-7502-pu-22-pcb-modchip-question-and-modchip-diagrams-request.1311/
- http://www.psxdev.net/forum/viewtopic.php?t=1266
- PM41 with BIOS patch for PAL PSOne consoles - Demo: https://youtu.be/Ahy8XMkAvQc 

## Descriptions

An Open Source arduino "full stealth" modchip developed for each model of PS1. The PU18 Is assumed to be working

The chips include multi-disc support and initially started with a full serial monitor output which shows you exactly what's
happening, as well as acting like a built in debugger. There are of course stand-alone internal install versions with out a debugger.

No Audio CD delay- will boot straight to audio CD player

Thanks to all the other open source modchip writers and especially thanks to OldCrows old articles and for
releasing the first of the mighty PSX modchips! (though, I did write this from scratch before looking at other source code!)

A clone arduino nano will set you back a whopping 6.60AUD free post at the moment, please check compatible arduinos folder.
This will be updated when possible, but should work with many (if not all) 3.3v arduinos.

Optional reset: PIC leg 4 off MM3 diagrams to the RST on the arduino.
Without this, you can reset but you'd have to open the drive lid and close it again to get the game disc to boot again. 

## How it works

Precise timing of injections on each model and cutting them off in time for anti-mod discs not to detect them (Stealth).

For PU8/ PU18 the gate is tied low for entire duration of console power on. 
Later models require a WFCK frequency instead.

The chip only kicks back into the magic key injection routine when the drive lid is opened / closed again (for Multi-Disc games), or if it's reset (optional wire) or powered off/ on.

The timing isn't written in stone, but I'd suggest leaving it as is, as I've tested them thoroughly. Try and use high quality CD-R’s


## To do

- ATTINY85 version would be cool to write.
- May have identified a bug in PAL PSOne version, multidisc swap doesn't like BIOS patch routine. For arduino version, likely a separate injection routine to call, minus the BIOS patch after lid open/ close. For PIC version, simply not resetting the BIOS patch routine counters after the initial injection routine should fix it. The counters should just count backwards from 255, minus 1 per injection- after hitting zero. The counters hitting zero trigger the BIOS patch routine to kick in and to end.
- Uber-D-D (PM41 bios patch version) has being ported across in raw assembly for PIC12F675. 
It would be nice to port the others across as well, though the WFCK frequency can’t be generated on the PIC chips without an external 20Mhz clock. You might be able to drive the PIC off the reference clock in the clock gen circuit on later phat models, this should allow the 7.22khz WFCK output on the PIC 12F675 version of Uber-D-D

- It would be cool to have every version able to boot from cold boot with lid open, i.e. turn on console without a disc, then close the lid after. Not really required but you could set a boolean TRUE/FALSE flag, AND that TRUE flag with the conditional break of the injection routine and OR the FALSE flag then AND it with a different amount of injections (it would require a new quantity of injections on each version, its different when you close the lid after because it doesn't have the start up delay involved) --> this was done and then dusted due to a change in V3.00 made to support multidisc.

## Some notes from the listed source in relation to WFCK frequency on PIC version

Source: https://pic-microcontroller.com/pic12f675-pwm-code-and-proteus-simulation/
" Then PWM is initialized using InitPWM() function. After that, PWM variable is assigned a value of 127, which corresponds to a duty cycle of 50% (as shown in figure 1). You can change duty cycle of PWM by just changing the value of PWM variable.
You can change PWM frequency by changing the CPU frequency of PIC12F675 microcontroller. In other words, currently I am using internal oscillator of 4MHz value which generates a PWM frequency of 1.8KHz. But you can use external crystal of upto 20MHz value to generate a maximum PWM frequency of 9KHz. Also, you can change PWM frequency by changing the frequency Pre-Scalar of timer0 in the code."


##  PU22+ notes
A 'Genuine Mode' (Chip disable) originally existed for early revision of the chip. You would start the console with the Lid open, then close it a few seconds later to boot genuine games. This would disable the chip completely as the magic keys would collide and genuine discs would not orginally boot.
Chip disable mode was left in place up to V2.1J though, it would never be required. Later versions output the WFCK frequency required. Chip disable mode was removed on the LGT8F328P version (V2.1Jx)  & the Data pin moved from D12 to D7 on this version.

## 4.43361875 MHz Sub Carrier Output
July 2022: So after updating a version to work with the LGT8F328P I realised we can now output the PAL Sub Carrier Frequency on the PWM CLK pins on this chip.
The other nanos used prior had a limit of 4Mhz output due to the 16Mhz they ran at. 
These run @ 32Mhz so we should be able to output up to 8Mhz.
PAL Sub Carrier Target = 4.43361875 Mhz


This would be easy to get close to if you spent some time next to a scope with a tiny sample of code and a calculator.
This would be like the old crow chips (I have amassed a small collection) that have the colour burst crystal (not the oscillator, just the small xtal that need supporting
circuitry) and act as a 2 in one by forcing NTSC games to use PAL Sub Carrier (and play in colour on PAL machines) and by injecting magic key to get your CD-R's and Imports to run.

This would only be useful in PU8/ PU18 machines - The sub carrier is not step locked to the GPU frequency in later revisions, it is a separate rail altogether off the onboard clock synth. It already outputs a fixed sub carrier regardless of game region (so don't even ask me why people were doing the link wire hacks back in the day).











## PU8 / PU18/ PU20 Revision History (I found some weird code on these versions, they were never 'polished' like PU22+, it works fine though :P)
V1.00: Developed on a PU18 (SCPH-5502), would work on PU8 as well. I was an ABSOLUTE noob to programming, having only written a few apps in Visual Basic 6 in high school. I still remember going to the book store and grabbing the “how to VB6” book! Other than that, I had attempted MANY times to write new missions for Command and Conquer Red Alert on my Pentium 1, 133Mhz beast with a 2Mb graphics card and 500Mb hard drive. I had extremely basic batch knowledge having being introduced to 286, 386 and 486 PC’s when I was 14 (Prior to this, just consoles!)and having to learn how to automate things in DOS as best as possible.

This version has the 1’s and 0’s for the PAL magic key string (SCEE) all written as individual ‘digital writes’ as this was all I knew.
 ##
V1.5 (DEBUG): Still Developing on a PU18 (SCPH-5502). Program flow was doing my head in, I made this into a debug version. I would power it off USB from the PC and It would print on the serial monitor lots of random information. 

Basically, this was to relay to me where in the the program it was up to at all times.  This way I could tell if the program never made it to a function that was meant to be called. I Found out you could add a delay at boot and have the console jump straight into CD player – there was absolutely no point starting magic key injections from the Get Go at power on. This delay would give the console just enough time to detect an Audio CD as an Audio CD before the magic key injections confused it, and you were hit with a massive waiting time before the Audio CD player on the console would launch. There were other minor timing tweaks as well.

I was using a wire to one of the Arduino I/O pins as a ‘sense wire’ whilst being powered off USB on the PC. When I switched the console on, it would sense the pin as ‘high/ true/ 1’. This would then let the code run. This was required, or the code would just start running as soon as it was plugged into the USB.

##
V1.5 (Stand-Alone): Still Devving on PU18... Basically stripped all the debug stuff out of the above version and had it power off the console as a proper installed modchip. No serial monitor stuff. Not sure what I was thinking at the time, but I was running power to the chip, then linking the power wire across to the sense I/O pin from when I was debugging to get the code running when the console was powered on.

##
V1.5.1 (Stand-Alone): As above, but added drive lid status check during magic key injections. This would monitor for a drive lid opening during the key injections and allow a halt and re-injection after closing the lid.
##
V1.5.2:  I realised it was dumb to have a link wire to a ‘sense pin’ to get the code running. I can just power the console on, and that switches the Nano on – then the code runs – DERP. That’s all that was changed.
##
V2.00: This version was re-written for LGT8F328P (QFP32), there are a lot of changes and they are outlined in the INO file.

## PU22 + Revision History

V1.00: By now, I’d gotten my head around a ‘for’ loop. Basic C++ for Arduino was starting to click for me. The Injection routine was switched to a nice tidy ‘for’ loop. No more digital writing each bit manually, though on this version, the console is making the 1’s and UberChip is only pulling the data line low for 0’s. A ‘for’ loop also made it incredibly easy to change which regions Key was being Injected.
##
V1.1: All this time, I’d only being trying back up CD-R games. I had never even considered whether a genuine disc would run. I figured if a burnt game works, a genuine one definitely does. I was wrong!

A quick work around was adding a quick drive lid check at boot. If the drive lid was open, the program would high-z it’s lines and lock itself into an infinite loop of nothing-ness, thus, completely disabling the chips functionality and allowing genuine discs to work. This doesn’t apply to PU8 / PU18 revision code. The consoles function quite differently and it looks like Sony made an attempt on killing piracy on the console with these later revisions. Too bad that in 2021, the amount of information on the internet re: how traditional chips function is insane. There are HEAPS of forums full of information.
##

V2.00: I started learning some lower level code – flipping register bits instead of digital writes, port manipulation and so forth. I started moving across to lower level code and optimising and neatening everything up. I also discovered some really old diagrams from Old-Crow installs showing how to get these chips working on PU20+ with a link wire. I decided the link wire was a good fix, but from what I read – it wasn’t really ideal having this WFCK signal perma wired. You still have the ability to disable the chip in this version, not that it’s required.
##
V2.1: I’d discovered how to ouput the WFCK signal using PWM on a CLK out pin on the arduino. This gives me complete control on when the signal is output and it’s duration. I was able to get rid of the perma-link. You still have the chip disable mode on this version.
##
V2.1J: I discovered a genuine JP game (legend of mana) that was flagging for antimod about 50% of the time on a PU23. I made a small timing change that seemed to increase it’s chance of booting. For some reason though, i can’t get this to boot at all on a PU22. I haven’t tried a PU20, though I’ve accumulated a large pile of these systems. Note: UniRom 8J using nocash unlock method also gets flagged.

##
V2.1Jx: I purchased a small bulk amount of LGT8F328P nano clones that run at twice the clock speed (32Mhz instead of 16Mhz). These chips were useless to me for about a year. It was annoying me that I had no use for them! Timing stays the same, but I had to alter the WFCK frequency code to suit the new MCU’s speed. I had to move the start up delay from the main loop to prior to set-up. The chip sits there dead for about 5 seconds before ANYTHING initialises. Not sure what’s going on there, but if setup runs straight away at boot on these MCU’s,  it doesn’t high-z the data line and kills the consoles ability to boot anything at all. Removed the chip disable mode altogether. There isn’t really any high level BS digital code left at all by now. I think i started off as C++ for arduino and sort of naturally went more towards a C programming language by the time I was finished. This should get other boards like the TT-GO-Z that use the same MCU IC working as well. Moving the delay on older versions might fix 168P compatiblity too?

## PAL PsOne versions
Uber-D-D: This uses a rough timing implementation for a single wire BIOS patch to allow other region games to also boot (CD-R or genuine) on a PAL PSone which has additional region lock outs. Though it's a rough implementation, I'd give it a good 75% success rate! It should be noted that NTSC PSOnes don't have the addional region check and would work fine with PU20+ versions of UberChip. The ONLY other modchip that can do this patch on a PIC chip is OneChip, these use 2 wires for the BIOS patch and are also known as a bit hit and miss. The full size arduino board version of PSNEE can do the patch as well.

I got Fancy on this version with an LED. it blinks with each magic key injection, it stays solid when the lid is open, it blinks once every 7s or something when it's in stealth mode and injections are complete.

## PIC versions
V1.00: I decided to go with the hardest chip first and ported Uber-DD (For PAL PSOne with addional BIOS patch) across to 12F675 using MPLab / PIC-ASM. 
I watched a youtube video on PIC Programming by 'Çreel' and away I went. Debugging was a nightmare. The Algorithm for the magic key injections though, is rock solid!

It uses the same blinking LED statuses as the Arduino version! LED sinks on the PIC, as oppose to being driven by the PIC.


## UberNee
Though I can't really find any games that won't work with UberChip (timing based) bar Legend Of Mana, I haven't tested on NTSC consoles.
Some NTSC games have their anti-mod disabled when used on PAL region consoles (different mechacon). 

This chip is based on PSNEE V7 and only fires off it's injections of the key when it knows the laser head is in the position of the disc where
the key is located on a genuine disc. This makes it 100% stealth and multi-disc compatible. It's runs on dirt cheap LTG8F328P MCU's!


##
What got me super interested in modchips? Besides being the first mod I ever installed when I was 14 years old with a cheap iron from a local store?

This article: http://www.oldcrows.net/mcc2.html

I've read it quite a few times.








